1.	Confidential Information.  “Confidential Information” means all information provided by a Party (the “Disclosing Party”), directly or through its Affiliates or its or its Affiliates’ officers, employees, agents, advisors, and representatives (“Representatives”), to the other Party (the “Receiving Party”) or any of its Representatives on, before, and after the Effective Date, in any form or media, whether oral, written, electronic, tangible, or intangible and whether or not marked, designated, or otherwise identified as “confidential,” including (i) the Disclosing Party’s unpatented inventions, ideas, methods and discoveries, formulas, trade secrets, know-how, unpublished patent applications and other confidential intellectual property (whether or not patentable); (ii) information concerning the Disclosing Party’s and its Affiliates’, and their customers’, suppliers’, and other third parties’ past, present, and future business affairs including finances, customer information, supplier information, products, services, organizational structure and internal practices, research and development, scientific and technical information, forecasts, sales and other financial results, records and budgets, and business, marketing, development, sales and other commercial strategies; (iii) any third-party confidential information included with, or incorporated in, any information provided; (iv) designs, specifications, plans, documentation, samples, components, code, protocols, processes, procedures, data, manuals, correspondence, images, icons, schematics, drawings, and other depictions, in whole or in part, of or relating to any of the foregoing; and (v) all notes, analyses, compilations, reports, forecasts, studies, samples, data, statistics, summaries, interpretations, and other materials prepared by or for the Receiving Party or its Representatives that contain, are based on, or otherwise reflect or are derived from, in whole or in part, any of the foregoing (the “Notes”). The Parties also agree to treat as Confidential Information the fact that investigations, discussions, and negotiations regarding the Purpose have been, are being, or may be held between the Parties and the substance of any such investigations, discussions, and negotiations.

The term “Affiliate” as used in this Agreement means with respect to a person, entity, or party (a “Person”), in each case as of any given time, any Person controlled by such Person, any Person that controls such Person, or any Person under common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, “control” and any variations thereof mean the power, whether acting alone or with one or more of a Person’s Affiliates, to, directly or indirectly, (i) vote or exercise a controlling influence with respect to more than half of the capital stock or other ownership interest giving holders the right to do one or both of the following: (a) elect the board of directors or other governing body of another Person, or (b) receive the net assets of such other Person available for distribution to holders of all stock or other ownership interests upon liquidation or dissolution of such other Person; or (ii) direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such other Person, whether by contract or otherwise.

2.	Exceptions. The term “Confidential Information” as used in this Agreement shall not include information that at the time exception is taken by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives (in each case, the “Excepting Party”) (i) is generally available to and known by the public other than as a result of, directly or indirectly, any violation of this Agreement by the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives; (ii) was known by or in the possession of the Excepting Party, as established by documentary evidence, before being disclosed by or on behalf of the Disclosing Party; (iii) was provided to the Excepting Party on a non-confidential basis by a third-party, provided that such third-party is not and was not prohibited from disclosing such Confidential Information to the Excepting Party; or (iv) was independently developed by the Excepting Party, as established by documentary evidence, without reference to or use of, in whole or in part, any of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information. Confidential Information shall not be deemed to be within the foregoing exceptions merely because it is either specific and embraced by more general information in the public domain or the Excepting Party’s possession, or a combination which can be pieced together to reconstruct the Confidential Information from multiple sources, none of which shows the whole combination, its principle of operation, and method of use.

3.	Obligations. All of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Disclosing Party and the Receiving Party shall (i) protect, safeguard, and hold in strictest confidence all such Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care as Receiving Party treats its own Confidential Information of like nature, but in no event with less than a reasonable degree of care; (ii) not use the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information, or permit it to be accessed or used, for any purpose other than the Purpose or a related transaction between the Parties, or in any manner to the Disclosing Party’s detriment, including to reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, or design around the Disclosing Party’s proprietary services, products, or Confidential Information or to cause or encourage any third-party to do the same; and (iii) except as expressly provided in this Agreement, not disclose the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information to any third-party without the prior express written consent of the Disclosing Party.

The Parties agree that neither Party shall by virtue of this Agreement be under any obligation to disclose any information to the other Party or to enter into any other business or contractual relationship, investment, or transaction. Either Party may at any time, at its sole and absolute discretion, with or without cause, terminate discussions and negotiations with the other Party, in connection with the Purpose or otherwise.  

4.	Limited Use and Disclosure. The Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information may be disclosed by the Receiving Party only within the Receiving Party’s own organization and to its Representatives, but only to the extent reasonably required to accomplish the Purpose set forth above or to exercise Receiving Party’s rights or perform Receiving Party’s obligations under the Agreement and only to such Representatives who are bound by confidentiality obligations which cover the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information and are no less restrictive than the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Receiving Party shall instruct each of its Representatives having access to the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information to abide by this Agreement and shall use its commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure compliance with the terms of this Agreement by such Representatives. Each Party shall be liable for any breach of or failure to comply with this Agreement by any of its Representatives.

5.	Required Disclosure.  Notwithstanding the restrictions on use and disclosure of Confidential Information set forth in this Agreement, the Receiving Party or its Representatives may disclose Confidential Information in response to a valid subpoena or judicial, stock exchange, or government order or requirement (a “Legal Order”); provided, however, to the extent permitted by law, the Receiving Party shall promptly, and before making any disclosure, notify the Disclosing Party so that the Disclosing Party may, at its sole cost and expense, with Receiving Party’s assistance, oppose such disclosure or seek a protective order or other limitations on disclosure related to its Confidential Information. If, after providing such notice and assistance, the Receiving Party remains subject to a Legal Order to disclose any Confidential Information, the Receiving Party (or its Representatives or other persons to whom such Legal Order is directed) shall disclose no more than that portion of the Confidential Information which Receiving Party’s legal counsel advises such Legal Order specifically requires the disclosure of and, on the Disclosing Party’s request, shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain assurances from the applicable court, agency, or other body that such Confidential Information will be afforded confidential treatment. 

6.	Term and Termination. This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the date immediately preceding the [Duration of Agreement] anniversary of the Effective Date, provided, however, that either Party may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing written notice to the other Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, even after the return or destruction of Confidential Information by the Receiving Party and its Representatives the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall remain in effect (i) with respect to the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information that constitutes a trade secret, until such Confidential Information is no longer considered a trade secret under applicable law through no fault of Receiving Party or its Representatives; and (ii) with respect to all other Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party, for a period of [Tail Period] following expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

7.	Return or Destruction of Information. Upon expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, or upon notice from either Party to the other Party at any time, Receiving Party and its Representatives shall promptly return to the Disclosing Party or destroy all the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information that is in any tangible form, including any copies that the Receiving Party may have made and any Notes. In the case of destruction, the Receiving Party shall confirm in writing such destruction to the Disclosing Party within six (6) weeks from receipt of the Disclosing Party’s request. The foregoing obligation of return or destruction shall not apply to (i) electronic copies of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information created automatically and in the ordinary course of business by the Receiving Party or its Representatives’ data archiving or disaster recovery systems, provided that only personnel of the Receiving Party or its Representatives whose job function is primarily information technology in nature shall have access to such copies and such personnel shall only access such copies for the purpose of disaster recovery or IT systems failure recovery; and (ii) Confidential Information that the Receiving Party’s counsel has informed the Receiving Party is subject to a litigation hold due to pending or threatened litigation. All Confidential Information retained pursuant to the foregoing provision shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Receiving Party will comply with the confidentiality obligations and use restrictions in this Agreement for so long as such Confidential Information is retained.

8.	Compliance with Export Regulation and Similar Restrictions. Information exchanged hereunder may be subject to restrictions on the exchange imposed by the United States government. Such restrictions include the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR, 22 C.F.R. §§120-130), the Export Administration Regulations (EAR, 15 C.F.R. §§730-774), laws concerning the disclosure of classified information, and other laws, rules, and regulations restricting disclosure. Accordingly, the Parties agree to abide by all such applicable laws, rules, and regulations governing the transfer, export, or re-export of technical data, including all amendments thereto (collectively, “Export Laws”). Technical data/technology that is controlled by any of the Export Laws shall not be released to foreign nationals, including foreign national employees of United States companies, foreign companies, or other entities without first obtaining the appropriate export license or other approval from the United States government. The Receiving Party shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that the proper safeguards are in place to prevent inadvertent release of technical data/technology that is controlled by any of the Export Laws to third parties without the applicable authorization. Should an unauthorized release take place, the Receiving Party shall notify the Disclosing Party within twenty-four (24) hours of the time Receiving Party has knowledge of the release.

9.	No Representations or Warranties. Each Party acknowledges that, except as may be expressly set forth in a subsequent definitive written agreement between the Parties, neither the Disclosing Party nor any of its Representatives makes or shall be deemed to have made, any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of any Confidential Information disclosed hereunder. Neither the Disclosing Party nor any of its Representatives shall have any liability of any kind to the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives relating to or resulting from the use of or reliance upon the Confidential Information or any errors therein or omissions therefrom.

10.	No Transfer of Rights, Title, or Interest.  Each Party retains its entire right, title, and interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to all of its Confidential Information. Neither anything in this Agreement nor any disclosure of Confidential Information hereunder shall be construed as an assignment, grant, option, license, or other transfer of any right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any of the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information to the Receiving Party or any of its Representatives, except the limited right to use and hold the Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

11.	Remedies. Each Party acknowledges and agrees that the Disclosing Party shall not have an adequate remedy in the event the Receiving Party breaches or threatens to breach this Agreement because damages cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated and that the Disclosing Party will suffer irreparable damage and injury in such event. Therefore, the Receiving Party agrees that the Disclosing Party shall be entitled, in addition to, and without waiving, any other available rights and remedies it may have under this Agreement or otherwise, to seek specific performance, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, or other equitable relief as a remedy for any actual or threatened breach of this Agreement. The Parties hereby waive any requirement for the showing of actual monetary damages in connection with such claim.

12.	Notice.  All notices required or permitted under this Agreement shall be in writing and deemed given when delivered to the attention of the individual signing this Agreement at the address set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement (and if to Company, with copy to [Full Legal Name of ESI Entity], 245 Freight Street, Waterbury, CT 06702, Attn: Legal Department) by (i) personal delivery; (ii) an internationally recognized overnight mail courier (e.g. FedEx, United Parcel Service), adult signature required; or (iii) the national postal service by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid with return receipt requested and signature confirmation. A Party may modify its designated address(es) for notice by providing written notice given to the other Party in accordance with this Section 12.

13.	Independent Contractors.  Company and [Short Name for Counterparty] are independent contractors. No other relationship is intended to be created between the Parties, and nothing herein shall be construed so as to create any agency, partnership, joint venture, or other form of joint enterprise, employment, or fiduciary relationship between the Parties. Neither Party shall have authority to contract for, bind, or otherwise act in any way as the representative of the other Party in any manner whatsoever.

14.	Definitions.  When used in this Agreement, the words “include” and “including” and any variations thereof shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed in each case to be followed by the words “without limitation”. The word “or” when used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be used in the inclusive sense of “and/or”, the word “any” when used in this Agreement shall be deemed to be used in the sense of “any and all”, and the words “to the extent” when used in this Agreement shall mean the degree to which a subject or other item extends and shall not simply mean “if”. When used in this Agreement, the words “hereof”, “herein”, “hereby”, “hereto”, “hereunder”, and words of similar import shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement.
